Dinosaur.
Dinosaurs were a type of reptile. They were the most powerful land animals of the Mesozoic era (which happened 252.2 million years ago to 66 million years ago).
Scientists have found over 700 species of dinosaurs, and they estimate that at the end of the Mesozoic, up to 1,000 species might have been alive. Scientists have found fossils of dinosaurs on every continent. On average, a new species of dinosaur is discovered every ten days.
Dinosaurs were a kind of archosaur that appeared in the Upper Triassic, about 231 million years ago. The first known dinosaurs were small predators that walked on two legs.
By the early Jurassic, dinosaurs were the most powerful land vertebrates and controlled most environments on land.
Dinosaurs suddenly became extinct 66 million years ago, during the T extinction event. That event killed all of the dinosaurs which walked on earth.
Birds are the descendants of theropod dinosaurs.
Types of dinosaurs.
All dinosaurs share at least 21 traits in their skulls and skeletons. Because all dinosaurs share these traits, paleontologists know all dinosaurs had a common origin. These common traits are called 'synapomorphies'.
Humans have only found definite dinosaur fossils as far back as the Upper Triassic. By that time, dinosaurs had already split into two great orders: the Saurischia and the Ornithischia. The Ornithischia began to develop a different hip structure. They developed bird-like hips.
A. "Eoraptor", an early saurischian, B "Lesothosaurus", a primitive ornithischian, C A saurischian pelvis ("Staurikosaurus") D "Lesothosaurus" pelvis
Saurischian ("lizard-hipped").
This order of dinosaurs did not develop a new hip structure.
Ornithischian ("bird-hipped").
These were beaked, herbivorous dinosaurs with bird-like hips.
Earliest dinosaurs.
The first known dinosaurs were meat-eaters that walked upright and were one to two metres long.
What were early dinosaurs like?
Early saurischians and early ornithischians looked alike. They did not look like modern crocodiles.
A major difference between saurischians and ornithischians was the shape of the bones in their pelvises. The two orders got their names from this difference. Another difference was in the skull. The ornithischian had a more solid upper skull. Also, the joint connecting the lower jaw was more flexible. This helped the ornithischian grind vegetable food.
Variations.
Dinosaurs were a varied group. Over time, they were very good at adapting to allow them to live in many ecological niches. This is called adaptive radiation.
Paleontologists have identified over 500 different genera and 1,000 species of non-avian (non-flying) dinosaurs. Today, there are over 9,000 living descendants of dinosaurs: the birds. These are the most diverse group of vertebrates on land.
Different dinosaurs evolved different adaptations to help them survive. For example, some plant-eaters, like Iguanodon, had special weapons to help them fight off the meat-eaters. "Triceratops" had three horns on its head shield, "Ankylosaurus" was covered in bony plates, and "Stegosaurus" had spikes on its tail.
The largest dinosaurs were Sauropod herbivores (plant-eaters), such as "Apatosaurus" and "Brachiosaurus". They were the largest animals to ever walk on dry land.
The carnivores were bipedal (walked on their back legs), though not as humans do. Their body was tilted more towards the horizontal, balanced at the back by their tail. Some were very large, like "Tyrannosaurus" and "Spinosaurus", but some were small, like "Compsognathus". It was the smaller-sized meat-eaters that may have evolved into birds. The first fossil bird, "Archaeopteryx", had a skeleton which looked much like that of a dinosaur.
Movement.
Dinosaurs were primitively "bipedal": their probable ancestors were small bipedal Archosaurs. The date of the early dinosaur genus "Eoraptor" at 231.4 million years ago is important. "Eoraptor" probably resembles the common ancestor of all dinosaurs; its traits suggest that the first dinosaurs were small, bipedal predators. The discovery of primitive, pre-dinosaur, types in Middle Triassic strata supports this view. Analysis of their fossils suggests that the animals were indeed small, bipedal predators.
Those dinosaurs which returned to four-legged stance kept all four legs under their body. This is much more efficient than the sprawling legs of a lizard.
The big sauropods could never have reached so large a size without their pillar-like legs. A review surveys what we know about the mechanics of dinosaur movement.
Warm-blooded.
A major change in outlook came in the 1960s, when it was realized that small theropods were probably warm-blooded. The question of whether all theropods or even all dinosaurs were warm blooded is still undecided.
It is now certain (from fossils discovered in China: see Jehol biota) that small theropods had feathers. This fits well with the idea that they were warm-blooded, and that the origin of birds can be traced to a line of small theropods.
Activity.
Warm blooded animals have a high metabolic rate (use up food faster). They can be more active, and for longer, than animals who depend on the environment for heating. Therefore, the idea of warm-blooded dinosaurs insulated by feathers led to the idea that they were more active, intelligent and faster runners than previously thought.
Main-stream paleontologists have followed this view for small theropods, but not for larger herbivores. Since we know that the size of a "Stegosaurs brain was about the size of a walnut, there is good reason to think its intelligence was limited.
Limitations.
Despite their great success over a long period, there were life-styles which the dinosaurs never evolved. None ever evolved to live entirely in water, as many mammals do, though "Spinosaurus" was semi-aquatic. And they never dominated the small terrestrial niche. All through the Mesozoic most small vertebrates were mammals and lizards.
Extinction.
The extinctions at the end of the Cretaceous were caused by one or more catastrophic events, such as massive asteroid or meteorite impacts (like the Chicxulub impact), or increased volcanic activity.
Several impact craters and massive volcanic activity, such as that in the Deccan Traps in India, have been dated to the approximate time of the extinction event. These geological events may have reduced sunlight and hindered photosynthesis, leading to a massive disruption in Earth's ecology.
Did any terrestrial dinosaurs survive the great extinction event? Several fossils have been found in the Hell Creek Formation about 40,000 years later than the T extinction event. Many scientists dismiss the "Paleocene dinosaurs" as re-worked, that is, washed out of their original places and then re-buried in much later sediments. An associated skeleton (e.g. more than one bone from the same individual) found above the K/T boundary would be convincing, but no such finds have been reported.
In popular culture.
The first dinosaur fossils were found in the early 19th century. They are major attractions at museums around the world. Dinosaurs also became part of popular culture. There have been many best-selling books and movies about dinosaurs. The media widely covers new discoveries about dinosaurs.
Books about dinosaurs have been popular, especially with children, but adults have also enjoyed these kinds of books. In Edwardian times, Arthur Conan Doyle wrote a novel about a plateau filled with dinosaurs which he called "The Lost World".
"Jurassic Park" in 1990 started a new phase in dinosaur popular culture when it was followed by the movie of the same name in 1993.