Los Angeles.
Los Angeles, officially the City of Los Angeles (also called L.A.), is a city in southern California, in the United States. There are 3,847,400 people living in the city, and over 18 million people in the L.A. region. The city has an area of 1200 square kilometers. L.A. has the second largest population of any city in the United States, the first being New York City. It is also the largest city of California.
History.
The name Los Angeles comes from the Spanish language, and it means "The Angels". The name is an abbreviation from the original name of the place. The original name is "El Pueblo de Nuestra Señora la Reina de los Ángeles del Río Porciúncula" (in English, "town of our lady the Queen of Angels of the River Porciúncula"). Los Angeles was founded in 1781. The area had earlier been explored by two Franciscan priests named Junipero Serra and Juan Crespi, when California still belonged to Spain. On April 4, 1850 California became a State of the USA. Los Angeles began to grow rapidly from when the railroad came in the 1870s up until the 1930s. Los Angeles was home to the Olympic Games in 1932 and 1984. Twice the city broke out in riots, in 1965 and 1992, both caused by anger between people and the city police. In 1994, an earthquake killed 72 people and damaged many buildings.
Geography.
Los Angeles is a very large city, and the edges of the city are very far from the center, going from the beaches to the mountains. The Santa Monica Mountains run through the city, separating it into the San Fernando Valley to the north and the Los Angeles Basin to the south. The Los Angeles River also runs through the city some. Los Angeles moves about one-quarter of an inch (6.3 millimeters) to the east every year. It is caused by the cities tectonic plates and rough ground geography and since Los Angeles is at a close distance with the San Andreas Fault. This brings Los Angeles and San Francisco 2.5 inches closer together each year.
Climate.
The climate in Los Angeles is a Mediterranean climate. The weather is usually warm and dry during the summer, and it is mild and more rainy in the winter. The weather is different depending on how far away from the ocean you are, so places near the beach usually do not get as hot in the summer. It is very rare for temperatures to go below freezing. The city receives about 15 inches (386 mm) of rain each year, although the amount can change a lot from year to year.
Sights.
L.A. has many famous sights. There are many very long beaches, such as Venice Beach. Many visitors go to Hollywood, home to the Hollywood Walk of Fame and the Mann's (Grauman's) Chinese Theater, a large cinema. Los Angeles also has many fine museums such as the L.A. County Museum of Art and the Getty Museum. Another sight is the Los Angeles City Zoo. Los Angeles is the only major city in the world with an active population of wild mountain lions.
Industries.
Los Angeles is known for its large movie and television industry. Much of this is located in Hollywood. Some military aircraft are also made there. The music industry is also concentrated in the area. The city is also a banking center. The San Pedro area has a busy port.
Politics.
The current mayor of Los Angeles is Eric Garcetti.