Ayumi Hamasaki.
Ayumi Hamasaki ("Hamasaki Ayumi"; born October 2, 1978) is a Japanese singer, songwriter, and former actress. She is also called Ayu by her fans, and called the "Empress of Pop" because her music is very popular in Japan. She was born and raised in Fukuoka. When she was fourteen, she moved to Tokyo and began her career as an actress in 1993. In 1998, she was signed to the label Avex Trax and released a number of singles that were successful. In 1999, she released her first studio album "A Song for XX" which was very successful and made her popular in Japan.
Because she changes her appearance and artistry very often, she is popular in other parts of Asia like China, Singapore, and Taiwan. Many of her songs are used in commercials and advertisements. She often appears in some of these.
Before she joined Avex Trax, she released a single and an album both called "Nothing From Nothing". But these did not become popular. Since she debuted in 1998 with "Poker Face," Hamasaki sold more than 50 records in Japan. This puts her as one of the highest ranking singers in the country. She holds many records as a female singers. These include the most number-one hits and highest sales.
Personal life.
Hamasaki dated Tomoya Nagase (a singer and actor) since her short acting career. They announced they were dating in 2001. Six years later, there were rumors that Hamasaki and Nagase were going to get married. But on July 13, 2007 Hamasaki said that they had broken up. She did not say why, but she said that they will stay as friends.
In 2008, Hamasaki revealed that she had become deaf in her left ear. This was because of tinnitus or Ménière's disease. She said that she had the condition in 2006 and that problems with her ear started in 2000. Hamasaki stated that she wants to continue singing. She said that she would "not give up" on her fans and that "as a professional", she wanted to "deliver the best performance for everyone".
January 1,2011, to marry a fan club site Ayumi Hamasaki 'TeamAyu' reported the fan.