Paris Hilton.
Paris Whitney Hilton (born February 17, 1981) is an American celebrity, socialite (someone who is very social and goes to a lot of parties and events), media personality, model, singer, author, fashion designer and actress. Her great-grandfather founded the Hilton Hotels. She is an heiress (meaning she will receive part of the Hilton Hotel fortune which her family runs). Right now she lives in the city of Los Angeles, which is in the state of California. She has a little dog named Tinkerbell, who is a small type of Chihuahuha.
Hilton has been in the media for various reasons. She has become well known for the bad behaviour she sometimes shows in public. Another reason for her fame is that a home-made sex video (with her former boyfriend, Rick Salomon) leaked onto the Internet in 2003. Hilton and her friend Nicole Richie were the stars of the reality show "The Simple Life" for five seasons.
Early Life and Background.
Paris Hilton was born in New York City. Paris is the oldest of four children. Her father is Richard and her mother is Kathy. She has a sister named Nicky who is three years younger than she is, and younger brothers, Conrad and Barron. Her grandfather is Barron Hilton and her great-grandfather was Conrad Hilton. Her step-great-grandmother was actress and socialite Zsa Zsa Gabor.
Paris Hilton lived in the Waldorf-Astoria area of Manhattan, which is part of New York City. She also lived in Beverly Hills, which is part of Los Angeles, and the Hamptons, which is on Long Island in New York. As a child she was good friends with Nicole Richie and Kim Kardashian. Her other childhood best friend is Nicky Hilton, her sister, who she spent a lot of time with and she still does. She went to her first year of high school at the Marywood-Palm Valley School in Rancho Mirage, California. Then she went to the Dwight School in New York for her second and third years of high school. A lot of people know that she went to school there with famous pop singer Lady Gaga. She then had to move to the Canterbury Boarding School, in New Milford, Connecticut. Hilton played ice hockey there. She was forced to stop going to the school in the year 1999 because she did not follow the school rules.
Hilton has attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder.
As a model.
When Paris Hilton was a child she began modeling, most often at charity events. When she was 19, she joined with Donald Trump's modeling agency, T Management. Hilton has also worked with Ford Models in New York, Models 1 Agency in London, Nous Model Management in Los Angeles, and Premier Model Management in London. Her picture is in many advertisements, and some of them are Iceberg Vodka, GUESS, Tommy Hilfiger, Christian Dior, and Marciano. In 2001, people started looking at her as a socialite, and everyone called her "New York's leading 'It Girl'" (a girl who is good at knowing what clothes are stylish to wear and knows the latest gossip).
Movies.
Paris Hilton has appeared in a few movies. Her biggest role was in a scary movie called "The House of Wax". She also played small roles, called cameo roles, in the movies "Zoolander", "Wonderland", and "The Cat In The Hat". She played supporting roles in "Nine Lives, Raising Helen", and "The Hillzu". She was the hottie in the 2008 movie "The Hottie and the Naughty". More recently, Hilton plays Amber Sweet, the surgery- and painkiller-addicted daughter of a biotech in the goth/rock musical "Repo! The Genetic Opera". Hilton is most famous in her movie career for a sex tape she filmed with then-boyfriend Rick Salomon. The tape was soon leaked onto the internet and became very famous. It features Hilton performing oral sex on Solomon and copulating with him and features some night-vision camera.
Television Shows.
Paris Hilton is known for television shows the "Simple Life" and "The Simple Life 2". She did the show with her friend Nicole Richie. It was broadcasted on FOX TV until 2004 and was then picked up by E! Network for two more seasons before cancellation in 2006. Hilton has also played guest roles, in episodes of The O.C., The George Lopez Show, Las Vegas, American Dreams, Dogg After Dark, and Veronica Mars. Also, she was in a few music videos, for example "It Girl" by John Oates and "Just Lose It" by Eminem. In April 2008, she guest starred on the My Name is Earl episode "I Won't Die with a Little Help from My Friends". Another famous show she is on right now is "Paris Hilton's My New BFF". On this show girls try to become Paris's new best friend.
Recording Artist.
Paris made her own album which is called "Paris". They include the songs "Screwed", and "Stars are Blind", which was a hit in 17 different countries.
Author.
In early 2004, Paris Hilton began selling a book about herself, "Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose", which was mostly written by Merle Ginsberg. The book has hundreds of photographs of her and contains her advice on life as an heiress. Hilton reportedly received a $100,000 advance payment for this book. The book was made fun of by Robert Mundell on The Late Show with David Letterman. The book became a New York Times bestseller. Hilton then made a designer diary, also mostly made by Merle Ginsberg, called "Your Heiress Diary: Confess It All to Me".